# Astronaut Debunks (& confirms) Space Myths | WIRED reaction

## Video Metadata

**Title:** Astronaut Debunks (& confirms) Space Myths | WIRED reaction

**Author:** No author available

**Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@NoProtocol

## Transcript

hi today we have debunked space Miss
54321 Mark hi I'm Commander Chris
Hadfield astronaut spaceship Commander
space walker part-time musician I'm here
today to hopefully debunk some common
space myths here's this common
perception that you will immediately fry
to a crisp by the unfiltered
unadulterated solar radiation if you get
sucked out of the airlock in truth it's
way worse than that in the shade in
space it's like minus 250° but the part
of you that's in the sun it's plus 250°
at least so it's going to start boiling
and burning so it's like lying on a red
hot stove with a piece of dry ice on
your back and your lungs are going to be
sucked flat instantaneously but even
worse than that is your blood is going
to boil like opening a can of pop where
suddenly the all the little bubbles come
out because there's no air pressure
around you so that whole sentence was
like but wait there's more pop he must
be from
Canada he could also be from the Midwest
but I don't think that's his accent
simultaneously you are going to freeze
boil burn get the bends and no longer be
able to breathe not a good way to go
I've done two space walks and I was very
thankful to have a space suit around my
body so that none of those things happen
to
me good sometimes you hear that you have
to work out constantly or you will pass
out and possibly die in space not true
living on a spaceship is the most lazy
existence you can imagine you're
weightless you do not have to lift a
finger you don't have to hold your head
up your heart doesn't have to lift your
blood it grants gravity you can be the
laziest person in the universe in space
but eventually you need to come back to
earth and if you don't exercise for your
whole six months in space you'll sort of
turn into a jellyfish so we do exercise
2 hours a day on a spaceship we have a
resistive machine we have a unicycle and
we have a treadmill where elastic Hold
Us Down just to keep our body strong
enough and our bones dense enough so
when we get home we don't just fall over
like a puddle but you don't need to work
out all the time I imagine your first
steps back on Earth after being in space
for a while are a bit
wobbly and picturing a newborn Fawn just
kind of tripping over itself so cute
you've probably heard that space has a
smell maybe like burnt steak or some
type of barbecue that's true when you
come in from a space surrounded by The
Emptiness of space it's sort of like the
opposite of air there's nothing there at
all when you quickly repressurize the
hatch and you open up the hatch and you
smell what is that lingering smell from
a place that used to be exposed to space
the smell in there is is a little bit
like that trace of a smell of gunpowder
or burnt steak or to me it's sort of
like Brimstone like a witch has just
been there it's a cool lingering trace
of a smell I think what it really is is
the emptiness of space the vacuum of
space is actually pulling Trace
chemicals out of the metal of the walls
of the ship little bits of stuff you
never smell because normally there's air
pressure holding them into the metal
they're slowly off gassing those tiny
little Trace gases and Trace particles
that otherwise they never get into your
nose and those are released sort of that
metallic gunpowder fired smell that's
where the smell is coming from maybe
it's not even coming from space it's
just sort of coming from space's effect
on our ship yeah in truth smells a
little bit like a burnt steak
that one makes sense so there's a lot of
word out there that if you go incredibly
fast like the speed of light if you
could travel at the speed of light that
you won't age and despite thousands of
years going by you'll stay the same but
everybody that you know will die that's
not really true Einstein called it
relativity because what he meant was
your aging will be different relative to
people's aging on Earth you'll still age
time will still pass for you but people
on Earth will age at a different rate so
that if you came back after going
incredibly fast you would have gotten
older by the amount time that it took
for you to travel but people on Earth
would have aged much much faster they
would have had a longer period of time
because if you get going fast enough
your speed is sort of proportional to
the time passing so you'll still age but
you just age at a different rate than
people back on Earth Einstein did this
cool thought experiment imagine if you
were looking at a clock the the light
from the clock is coming and hitting
your eyeballs and telling you it's 12:00
well imagine if you could move move away
from that clock at the speed of light it
would only say 12:00 because that light
and you would be moving away from the
clock at the same speed so for you it
would look like it was always 12:00
forever you'd still be getting older but
that clock would always look like it was
the same time the people on Earth were
continuing to live they're not aware of
you going the speed of light so you can
see that the time for you because of
your speed is relatively different than
the time for the people on Earth it's a
really unusual thing to try and grasp in
your head what famous sci-fi movie has
that what happens when something blows
up in space if something explodes in
space will it make a sound and could a
human hear it it's a pretty easy
question to answer the sun if you guys
remember we watched the planet sounds
video on this channel a while back where
they converted the radio emissions into
sound waves so that humans could hear
but because there isn't sound in space
as we know it that conversion process
was operative that one stuck with me is
just an explosion the sun is the biggest
explosion any of us can imagine it's a
huge continu thermonuclear explosion
it's every atom bomb we've ever built
way more than that continuously
exploding it would be the loudest thing
imaginable it's constantly happening but
we don't hear a whisper of it and that's
because there's nothing to carry the
sound from the Sun to us even though
it's incredibly violent there's nowhere
for the pressure of all of that sound
all of that noise to be carried Across
The Emptiness of space to shake my
eardrum in here and let me hear the
sound of the sun it's a good thing it'd
be deafening so if something explodes in
space it makes sound but there's no way
for that sound to be carried across
space so that I could
hear there is this IDE out there that
maybe the only way that we could really
create gravity is to spin the spaceship
so that everybody is stuck to the sides
like one of those rides at the fair
where you're pinned against the wall and
for now that's actually true we don't
know how to control gravity we have no
way to control gravity we can sort of
pretend there's Gravity by spinning a
ship and never everything stick to the
sides like a ball on the end of a string
maybe someday we'll figure out how to
control gravity but for now we have to
spin the whole ship only in the middle
would they be
weightless that was my favorite ride at
the fair when I was younger the
Gravitron where it's spinning so fast
and you stick to the wall I was a
scaredy-cat of that one at
first how does that even work
centrifugal force other physics words
I've seen that
NASA is working on warp speed so that we
can travel at the speed of light to
Interstellar planets warp speed is an
invention of Science Fiction if we knew
how to work on warp speed we would we
don't know how to go anywhere near the
speed of light it takes an unlimited
amount of energy the faster you go the
more energy it takes e equal mc^ squ it
goes up with the square of the speed in
fact so how can you generate that much
electricity and what does it do to your
mass we don't know we think maybe maybe
it's possible that you could go faster
than the speed of light but we sure
don't understand how right now so we're
not really working on it so it's not
really true we're we're hoping for it
that one was good to know in so many
movies you see that the only way that
they survive Interstellar travel from
one star to another is to freeze
yourself into cryosleep we don't know
how to do that right now when you freeze
water which is what we're mostly made of
our blood and everything it goes into
crystals it turns into ice crystals and
if you allow the beautiful delicate
nature of your human body to expand into
ice crystals it'll destroy the structure
of you it'll kill you you know frostbite
destroys it so that you get gang Green
in your hand you'd end up with entirely
destroyed bodies so right now we do not
know how to successfully freeze a human
body so that it is not going to be
permanently destroyed maybe we'll figure
it out someday but all of those movies
that rely on freezing the crew we don't
know how to do that it's not real
you see on the internet all the time
someone has built a balloon and they've
launched some little figurine with a
camera attached to it where they take a
picture way up high in the atmosphere
you can see the curvature of the earth
it's pretty cool but there's some people
thinking you could fly yourself all the
way up to the stratosphere with some
sort of high altitude balloon you can
actually but it's really complicated
Felix balm Gartner when he did his his
leap out of a balloon and actually go
through the speed of sound falling down
towards the Earth and Landing with a
parachute he was way up into the
stratosphere the stratosphere starts at
about 6 or seven miles up it's it's not
all that high that goes on for a long
way there's not enough air to breathe
you kind of need to have an airliner
with the pressure inside to keep your
body healthy if you're that high but if
you take the right equipment with you
yes we can use a balloon to Lift Us high
enough to get all the way up into the
stratosphere so if you have the right
equipment it's
true you've probably read somewhere on
the internet that if you go to the space
station your body will get taller sort
of expand and it'll be painful and
you're going to be taller forever an
irreversible experience it's not really
true as I'm standing here talking right
now gravity is pushing me down towards
the floor every single bone in my body
and the little bit of gristle that's in
between the bones like each of the
vertebra of my back everyone has a
little disc in between each of the bones
and even my hip bones and my knee bones
there's a little bit of a gap well if
there's no gravity pushing me down then
those gaps can all get a tiny bit bigger
if you stay in weightlessness for a few
weeks in fact your body just sort of
stretches because the gap between each
of the bones gets a little bigger and in
my case I got about that much taller but
you aren't really taller you're just
sort of temporarily longer but it's not
permanent as soon as you get home and
gravity starts doing its its work on you
and grinding you down everything
squishes back down to its launch so you
may be for a little while a little bit
taller in space and it may hurt your
back a little because everything's sort
of getting pulled tight some people have
back pain in space as a result but it's
not really growing it's just sort of
stretching to your naural maximum that
you're going to get squished back again
as soon as you get home if you do get
that was making me think of the famous
NASA twins study where they had a set of
twins both astronauts one was sent to
space one state on Earth both taking
biological samples in their you know
respective places so that they could see
the effect on the human body in space
I'll find you what I can of the study
and Link it in the description I'll also
link it because I don't remember
exactly what happened there but at the
six Monon Mark the brother who went to
space was I think 90% back to
normal that's all I've got you'll find
it down below maybe that much longer
after you've been in space for a few
weeks think what your pants would be
like you're you know they're going to
they're going to be high above your
ankle and if you put on a space suit who
custom fit the spacit to the size of
your body but we know it's going to
happen we actually plan in advance we
fit our space suits knowing that the
astronauts are going to be a little bit
taller when they're in space or at least
their bodies are going to be a little
bit stretched and even the seat that
protects us when we come back to earth
the crash seat so that when we hit the
ground it protects us properly we allow
for the fact that our backbones are
going to be slightly longer when we're
up there but your clothes you don't
really know how they fit because you're
floating around weightless your shirt is
always floating around your body so you
never really have a sense up there how
well your clothes fit just because
there's no gravity to pull them down and
look and see how well they're fitting on
your body it's more like like they're
just floating next to you what's he
doing there I've read somewhere that on
board the International Space Station
bacteria multiplies 10 times faster in
space so if you get sick your body is
going to be like torn apart by this
ravenous strain of of mutant salmonella
nah it is a different place than Earth
the space station we run around with
little swabs all the time to measure
what microbes and what viruses and what
little uh tiny bits of life might be
growing on the spaceship we also go
around with little cleaners and wet
wipes and wipe down the whole Space
Station all the time like in a hospital
to try and keep the whole thing clean
and hygienic and we are finding that
some of those primitive forms of life do
mutate slightly differently in the high
radiation weightless environment of the
spaceship but no one has died yet
because of the mutant samonella I'm
Chris Hadfield hopefully this has helped
answer some of those common space
myths okay that was another subscriber
request from wired's YouTube channel
which I'm going to link down below we've
seen a few other videos from them one on
language another on Henry Rollin They
have a lot of random subjects but just
looking at the end cards they do have
more videos on Space if you're
interested in that as far as these
questions some of the myths I'd never
heard before almost all of them are
questions I hadn't asked myself but it
was cool to hear the answer it's funny
because we watch a lot of space videos
on this channel almost none of which
have to do with astronauts themselves
while I was watching him I was thinking
that I don't know much about modern-day
astronauts at all so if you know another
video like this to recommend we can
watch it in the future but when they
were showing footage of him in space I
think it was him in space it could be a
simulation if you know you'll have to
let me know I was thinking about how I'm
glad that people like this exist who are
willing who do want to because it could
not be me now I need to figure out what
the gra Gravitron how the Gravitron
works I'll link you whatever I find and
leave your thoughts on this
one a subscriber called Jonah
recommended me this book after we
watched another video a while back on
colonizing Mars I ended up really liking
it it's called The Martian Chronicles
Ray Bradberry he also wrote Fahrenheit
451 and some other short stories that
I've recommended in other sci-fi videos
this is also in the Sci-Fi genre and the
story line goes that people from Earth
go and Conquer Mars start to colonize
and then things start going haywire with
unforeseen consequences there are
already martians there ethical and
practical questions start coming up and
I think it's an attempt to answer the
question of do humans even belong
there keywords for the music choices
today are going to be astronaut Universe
worlds space if you can think of any
songs related to any of those things
that we haven't mentioned mentioned
before let us know today I'm going to
start with a classic because how could I
not Rocket Man by Elton John I'm going
to guess that a good majority of you
have already heard it British musician
beautiful pianist if you have heard the
song but you haven't seen the music
video I'm going to add that for you as
well it's very melancholic though but
good
storytelling and the second choice was
World Without Words by Nabis nbis was
from Japan and along with Jilla some say
that he's the father of Loi so this is a
Loi Jazzy song it's smooth very relaxing
it's from the soundtrack of Samurai
champ I may just be a very big nubis fan
so a little bit biased and I'm trying to
think of something
else Drops of Jupiter by Train sometimes
I like cheesy music that's really all I
have though I'm sure some of you are
going to think of better songs than I
can so let us know that's all from me
today thanks for sending in this video
it wasn't interesting and thank you for
watching with me I'll see you next time
