# Suno's New AI Tool Turns Any Sound Into a Song

## Video Metadata

**Title:** Suno's New AI Tool Turns Any Sound Into a Song

**Author:** No author available

**Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@AIForHumansShow

## Transcript

this is a chat GPT moment for AI music
we got our hands on puno's new extend
from original feature and it feels like
this is the next big step for AI
music we're going to show you how it
works we're going to let you hear some
samples and of course we'll discuss the
future of Music Creation until the music
industry shuts it all down bab this is
AI for
humans sunno gave us early access to a
brand new feature it's extend original
audio they may come up with a way sexier
name for it and I it's very much rough
and Early Access and already super
impactful I was blown away by what this
thing does and the interface isn't final
so sunno has asked people to really not
cover that because it's still very much
a beta but it's as simple as it sounds
you hit upload you drag and drop a song
even a video file could be supported and
it will grab the audio from it from
there you tell it where in the track you
would like to extend the audio from and
you create just like you normally would
make an AI song meaning you can give it
lyrics if you like you can tell it to be
instrumental and then of course Gavin
you have to prompt the song Tell it is
it an 80s synth wve classic is it an
orchestral soaring Masterpiece or is it
a country redneck power ballad I love
those country redneck power ballads
Kevin you sent me some incredible songs
over the weekend but I do want to start
first by something that that I thought
was actually kind of meaningful to you
which is that you surprise surprise
everybody Kevin pero is a musician and
he does have a music background as well
Kevin had a track from like the mid
2000s that you were like I'm want to see
what I can do with this I'm still trying
to process exactly how it felt and why
it felt that way because you and I have
played with generative art and AI for a
long time what level of ownership do you
feel over an image that you get out of
mid Journey or stable diffusion probably
more than people who hate AI art but not
like I don't feel like I slaved over it
for hours and hours the more you put
yourself into something the more you
feel connected to the output and I think
a lot of people when they play with AI
song generation it feels very much like
I I put a few words in there and then I
pulled the handle on the slot machine
and you don't really feel an immense
sense of ownership over that output this
tool changes that so this was a garage
band Banger that I made Gavin which is a
high futin music tool for the Elites of
the elite but I had access to it back in
like 2006 and I plinked some Pian and I
played some drums and I started to
affect it and I was just abandoning this
thing but all along the way I was
hearing vocals to it that I I can't sing
and I was hearing baselines but I can't
play the bass I can barely plank the
piano and so here's a snippet of the
original which was fed into the
machine okay you get it right very basic
piano and drums and now
after copying and pasting some uh Ellie
ging Lights lyrics and telling it to
take the track and run with it here is
what came
[Music]
out that's
[Music]
incredible okay so uh that's amazing
right obviously listening to this you
can just tell this is already going to
be an insanely powerful tool for
musicians to play with but also like you
said like I like to Noodle with music as
well too and play around with different
things I also listened to a ton of Music
grew up listening a ton of music play
guitar briefly a little bit but it's so
interesting to think about what the
opportunity here is and I think a lot of
people who may be watching this are
musicians and being like this is not
good because it's going to mean that
everybody suddenly can do this stuff and
what does that mean for my skill set and
I understand that and we trust us we've
talked about these issues quite a bit
but I think you have to also think about
the opposite end is that what does it
mean to on board a huge amount more
people who might feel like a connection
to music that feels slightly different
so two things the reason this is a chat
GPT moment is that you and I were
messing around with AI tools well before
chat GPT ever existed what chat GPT did
was make it simple and accessible for
anybody to get output from the machine
and sunno has been uploading examples of
people hitting water cans
[Music]
or
[Music]
humming and taking those sounds and
making music with them that is what this
will unlock for people if you have no
musical ability you'll be able to
collaborate with a machine and get
something out of it if you are an artist
you will get so much more out of it and
in the same way none of us sit around
and watch Robots play chess against each
other because we get it they're so good
I think we will gravitate towards the
art that still has a ton of human in the
loop and if a human is in the loop and
in some way performing it well you can
go watch the performance of that you
maybe someday people will want to watch
the Boston Dynamics dogs dancing on
stage to the songs that they dogs out
that's going to be imagine that woof
woof woof the next one we're going to
make actually reminds me a Boston boys
oh my God we do need to make we should
make that that could Baja Dynamics Kevin
I got access to a slightly different
audio tool this weekend called sound
effects by 11 labs and this was a very
cool tool from another company 11 Labs
we used to make our AI Co voices and
they released a sound effects model of
course the first thing that I did when I
got access to this was I asked it to
create an exceptionally large fart sound
and it gave me four different fart
sounds
as a middle-aged adult this was the
funniest thing I possibly could have
done with it I had a lot of fun and then
I I sent this to you you laughed about
it as also another middle-aged adult but
then you took one of my fart sounds and
threw it through the sun process so this
is the amazing thing is like it's not
just music right this is a sound that
was created in AI sound that we then
used to start this song So this let's be
clear this is one of your exceptionally
loud farts yes beautiful that you were
able to collaborate with a machine and
make such art and then I took that made
it slightly rhythmic fed it into the suo
machine and said give me a booty blast
[Applause]
Banger blast fart
fart click shopping cart fart
fart pants pretty remarkable
and spoiler we're playing these a little
out of order because um out of all the
music that I made Gavin even
interpretations of my own precious
pouring out from the soul work that was
the track that April was like you're not
making anything better than that that's
the best one she's been going around the
house going click and add to shopping
cart fart fart she's actually been
singing that song There was a great
video um Phineas Billy is's brother who
makes all of his music with her did a
really interesting interview on Jimmy
Fallon show which I used to work on a
long time ago where he came on and
talked about how they use specific
sounds and then they interpolate them
into their music yeah this feels like a
way to say like hey I can go and take my
tape dispenser and make like a little
snippy sound and like what would that
sound like and it's probably in a lot of
ways like a little bit of a toy to start
with a lot of the music production
software feels like a toy until you
unlock it and master it there's no
shortage of Samplers which let you take
things like your tape dispenser you know
any noise you can make you can take it
you can sample it and then there are
OneTouch features that will do something
like quantizing which will make it
happen on the beat even if you have no
rhythm you can press a button and do it
that's not looked upon by anybody from
house DJs to professional musicians like
oh you're cheating man you have no soul
it's just an accepted tool and I think
in the future people will be jamming
with these AI assistants humming
something playing some drums plucking a
guitar seeing what the machine gives
back and then working with that to
generate something now I'm sure they're
going to use an audio fingerprinting
service much like YouTube has or twitch
has where it's listening to see is this
copyrighted music but I don't know if
that applies to Tik Tok tracks or old
commercials from the90s Gavin which is a
rabbit hole I went down with this tool
yeah this is really interesting so you
have a couple examples here of of
basically sampling things that exist out
in the world and then turning them into
songs themselves which is something
that's been happening in music for what
30 plus years well for the summer
everybody was looking for a man in
finance who's 65 has a trust fund blue
eyes I'm looking for a man in finance
the trust fund 65 blue
eyes fin
[Music]
[Music]
oh the roof has been raised Gavin yes
this was girl on couch from Tik Tock
saying that she made a banger sort of
rhythmically saying a couple words but
Tik Tok man the community took it they
ran with it YouTubers did the same and
what's cool about this is again it gives
that example of like an AI tool might
allow thousands more people to play with
this and now granted I don't think Kevin
and I are saying that this this is
better than those in any sort of way but
as a tool and an onboarding device for
people to music it is actually a really
interesting idea that's right and man
sometimes you get an earworm you get a
jingle from the past stuck in your head
the JG
Wentworth thing I was in Northern
California so I know it blanketed the
West Coast but it was this operatic
Anthem about needing cash so you got to
call JG Wentworth and so I put a little
bit of that into the old machine and
what's astonishing here Gavin is the way
I gave it 15 seconds of the song and it
immediately grabbed onto the sing songy
nature of the verse and the Epic booming
chorus so of course I made a
whistleblowers Anthem about working for
[Music]
Boeing I the whistle but I don't no
about work for tell how the pl fall down
every I take
[Music]
aath you could hear the way the tool is
grabbing the audio and and running with
it the AI tools have a lot of parallels
with each other Gavin so with image
generation you got basic put put in some
text maybe you get a picture of that
text on the other side and then the
tools got really good and you can have
custom models you could in paint you
could out paint you could then move to
video the same things are happening to
audio and this is an example of that the
text in to lowquality compressed tinny
audio out has already gotten much better
right we're we're very close to CD
quality across the board and now we're
starting to see the other tools
unlocking this is basically audible in
painting and then we're going to get to
custom models where you can have your
own model trained on your style and get
that out of the machine it is an
incredible incredible time if you're
there out there watching this stuff
you're curious about it if you're mad
about it because I understand why people
could be mad about it because they might
see this as something coming to take you
know jobs there was a quote that went
viral over the weekend from author J ma
where she basically said I want AI to do
my laundry and dishes so that I can do
art and writing not AI to do my art and
writing so I can do my laundry and
dishes which is a understandable feeling
and the one thing I will say in response
to this cuz I think it's an important
point point I don't think anybody in my
world at least in my brain I'm not
expecting AI to do the art right I'm
expecting me to do the art with the help
of AI to make my art interesting
different better or speed me up I don't
think we are anywhere close to AI making
interesting art but people plus AI could
make more interesting art in than they
might normally be able to and that's the
interesting part there's a reason we
dive into this each and every week on
the podcast and I'm sure we will even
deeper this week in the wake of this
tool there there's someone Gavin who was
an a true artist using razor blades
cutting film on a steam back that's how
they they used to actually edit and cut
the film strip and then put it together
they were artists and they learn how to
master that craft and then Along Came
digital editing and it didn't ruin the
art by any stretch it opened up
everybody to being an editor and there
are going to be pitfalls along the way
it is not going to be perfect but I
think this is going to be the future of
creation I I really do and I think it's
going to on board a lot of people and I
I think we're going to see some amazing
human art empowered by these machines if
you have any questions or thoughts drop
them in our comments below and please
subscribe to the YouTube channel we're
here every uh couple days now on our
YouTube channel having fun and as always
Thursdays is our main show comes out on
YouTube and on podcast please go listen
it's called AI for humans we very much
appreciate every single one of you
watching this
[Music]
